Okay, so we gotta take a poll here.
We gotta start with a poll.
How many people are from government?
So this is spot the Fed.
No.
How many people are
from kind of commercial?
Okay, how many people are education?
Now, some of you held your hand up twice.
Are you not sure?
There's a little
schizophrenia going on here.
Okay.
Those, okay,
so maybe I'll ask one last question.
How many of you were here for this
same kind of similar session last year?
Okay,
hopefully you'll still get some value.
What we're trying to do is kind of
give you some high-level guidance,
give you some lower-level thinking.
We'll be talking about kind of
critical thinking of security.
But most of all,
this comes back to the security guidance
that we do really within our documents.
And we'll hit on this a little bit later,
but hopefully you're all aware that for
both Leopard Client and Leopard Server,
the security guides that we do
collaboratively with several
of the agencies hit the street
back in the beginning of June.
So again, in this session,
Help Set Expectations,
is we want to help you better
understand how you can do a
little bit of system hardening.
Some folks say, well, OS X is secure,
right?
Well, when you're changing environments,
maybe go to some hotspots,
you may be going into some more
where security requirements
are at a higher level.
What do you do?
What do you need to figure out what
services to modify or to manage?
So that's kind of where this
guidance of this session is going.
We want to introduce you
to some of the tools,
and of course, at the very end,
we want to be sure that you
have the right resources,
the right references to get this
guidance on a regular basis.
So that's what we're going to do today.
So hopefully,
we're going to help you better
understand how to do that
hardening in your environment,
and I want to emphasize your environment,
because every environment
that you're running,
the laptops, desktops, handhelds,
the iPhones,
each environment that you're in,
has a different kind of attack vector,
a different kind of attack environment,
right?
You need services, maybe when you're on
a laptop in a hotspot,
you need Wi-Fi that you may not need
when you're inside of your own agency.
So these are all considerations
that you need to understand
when you're kind of doing that
fortification in your environment.
We want to help you with kind of
some of those steps of what you
can do to mitigate some risk.
Kim from NSA will be helping you.
She's going to walk through
some thinking about how to think
critically about security when you're
thinking of this fortification,
and again, ongoing guidance.
Okay, kind of like what we did last year,
for those of you who are new to this,
or you just kind of need a refresher,
what do we really mean
by system hardening?
Well, really,
it's taking the steps to eliminate or
minimize a lot of the security risks,
or minimize it as much as possible,
right?
Again,
you always need to leverage services,
so you're trying to take as many
steps or the appropriate steps
to reduce any kind of risk,
but still maintain that functionality.
And one of the areas I kind of wanted
to hit on on my part of this is
that predominantly with the laptop
environment and with handhelds,
portables, phones,
it's really become a very
mobile landscape here with data,
right?
We're all kind of moving around
with a lot of our portable devices,
and we're all kind of moving around
it's not the same as it
was several years ago.
Very few folks had so many laptops that
carried around so much sensitive data.
And now all of that sensitive data,
whether it's our corporate information,
whether it's national
information or whatever,
it's walking, right?
It's leaving the doors,
it's going out on devices,
and so this becomes a sensitive issue,
things that we need to protect.
So now you think of this mobility,
probably every one of you have
heard of so many situations
that have raised awareness.
And so I kept on a couple
government-related issues.
When you think of facilities
that have so many laptops,
thousands and thousands of laptops,
things walk out the door,
you don't have good protection on this,
and they get into environments
where things are exposed.
These are concerns with this change of
landscape that now has raised awareness,
kind of triggered the thinking,
in some cases triggered a lot
of policy related to that.
But most of all,
it has given us two reasons for taking
a closer look at what we can do or
what we should do with our systems.
So at least in my part here,
I want to focus a little bit
on how can you take some minor,
very simple modifications on your
systems in improving things from
a portable computing standpoint.
Some of these points,
those of you who were here last time,
I kind of carried some of the points
forward because these are just points
that just can't be emphasized enough.
First is, a lot of the Wi-Fi access
or just communication,
any kind of security guidance
that you receive from anybody,
one of the first things
that we all say is,
if you're not using the service,
turn it off.
That's kind of a simple thing,
but it's easily forgotten because you
might be enabling Wi-Fi for a hotspot,
you might be enabling
Bluetooth for some other device,
and you move about.
We're in a hurry,
we're constantly running
from one thing to another,
but yet that's a typical form of learning
new information about people's machines,
a new way of attacking.
So one of the first things you can do,
item number one is, turn things off when
you're not using them.
All these ports for Wi-Fi, Bluetooth,
you name it.
And particularly when
you're doing discoverable,
right?
If you're discovering or enabling
your system for discoverability,
whether it's your phone or your laptops,
it's just one more
reason that folks have,
or one more capability folks have of
learning what kind of device you have,
what kind of system you may
have that they can attack
with through various means.
So on each one of these,
I want to kind of bring up,
why would you take this approach,
or why are you using these kinds
of steps to mitigate these risks?
And one is, in this case,
we're just going to
reduce... this attack,
right?
We're going to reduce what any kind of
malicious individuals or organizations
or services can actually attack us.
We're going to reduce that down
to the bare minimum that we
actually have to use right now.
In this case,
it may just be a Wi-Fi access.
So what are the tools that Apple provides
in our products to help you with this?
Well, first of all,
if you are being centrally managed and
you're doing this from a Mac OS X server,
you'll notice that you can fully
manage those ports and do that
disablement on a given system for users.
So you could enforce this by policy on
behalf of that user that may forget or,
again, you may require this.
So second of all, if you're doing the
one-to-one deployments,
of course, you can physically disable
those interfaces as well.
Lock this down and require administrative
or additional authentication mechanisms
to modify that and re-enable it.
So you can do that by
using the kernel extension.
Many of you might be in
environments where you've got
to go to the lowest level,
and that is you may physically
need to remove some of the
kernel extensions to just,
through software, disable those services,
right?
Anytime you're doing modifications,
whether it's network setup or
whether you're using terminal
to physically remove kernel
extensions for disabling ports,
always remember that
anytime we do an update,
right, if you're removing kernel
extensions or something,
that they might be reapplied.
So be aware of the ramifications of
updates to your systems with respect
to the type of approach or the type
of management you're doing here.
Another point I brought up last year
was about baselining your system.
It's amazing how many folks,
when you ask them, they say,
"Something's happened to my
machine," and you may ask them,
"Well, how do you know?" "Well,
I think something's changed," right?
You always want to be sure that you
have leveraged a server or a service
or a capability that you can truly
baseline what your system should have
or does have as kind of the approved
or configuration of your system.
And there's a lot of reasons
why you want to do this.
First of all, again,
is how else are you going to
know that something's changed?
You want to be sure that
you can ensure what's right,
and how do you ensure that?
Many of the cases,
many of the tools that folks
are using are tools that,
generally,
do potentially hashes of applications.
It may do the validation
of signed apps within OS X,
within Leopard at this point.
There's a lot of the open-source
tools and referencing for scanning to
be sure that it's the same services,
the same file system is there,
same files, same environment,
same configuration.
And there's several organizations that,
surprisingly, are using a combination
of some of these tools.
So they may be doing some
scripting themselves,
tying that back into remote desktop,
and kind of pushing those out,
other scripts out to run on each one of
their desktop or laptop environments.
Another area that we've provided
services that you can leverage,
and not everyone always
knows about these,
so we always want to
bring about awareness,
is that BSM, or Basic Security Module,
was ported over from Sun onto OS X.
So you have the ability of doing the
additional security auditing on OS X.
And what we mean by this is you're quite
familiar with the system log and what
applications and the OS logs as activity,
but you can go further into
defining and configuring what
additional security relevant events
are that you want to capture.
And so the auditing services are there.
Some of you might be familiar
with some of the turmoil that
has happened throughout the
different versions of the OS.
There were some transition periods,
10.4 on Intel,
where it wasn't readily available.
10.5 auditing tools are available
publicly for all 10.5 systems now,
so you're all back to snuff on that.
This gives you the
ability of capturing and,
in many cases, most folks,
most of you are probably aggregating
these security audit logs on a central
server or in a data center for reporting,
in many cases, this is by policy,
organizationally by
policy at a later time,
so that you can prove what did
or did not happen on a system.
So let's go forward.
This is something that
many folks should be doing,
more so than they are,
and that is we talked
about all these laptops,
this mobile data,
this landscape change where a lot of our
data is going around on mobile devices,
the leveraging of the built-in FileVault.
How many people are leveraging FileVault?
How many?
Some of you.
Okay.
Well, we've got FileVault there,
and hopefully you're aware
that with Leopard Server,
you can additionally force that
by policy on those accounts.
We did a security discussion on the
East Coast just this other week,
and the awareness of being able to force
FileVault onto all the portable devices
was kind of a new thing to many of them,
that they could now force all of
their mobile devices on their devices.
So we're going to be working
with the local workforce to have
FileVault running for their accounts,
or FileVault containers for their
account on their portable devices.
Then with the extension
of encrypted containers,
portable encrypted containers
on external drives,
just about every one of us
have received all the chachkas,
all the little thumb drives from just
about every conference we've gone to,
a couple gig drives here that typically
are just used for exchanging data.
Sometimes we've been able to do that.
We've been able to do that.
And we put sensitive
information on there.
The best thing is put an encrypted
container on there using disk utility,
dump in an encrypted container.
That way every time we
write data to and from that,
we're protecting all of it.
Again, why are we doing this?
To protect or prevent
the exposure of our data.
And many times that can
cost each one of us a lot.
In many cases,
from some of the companies,
when data gets exposed,
it's corporate IP.
It could mean loss.
In some cases,
it could mean loss of millions
of dollars just with information.
For many of us,
it could mean loss of our jobs, again,
with the type of
information that gets out.
So with FileVault and the disk images,
always be aware now that you can
-- the upgrade with Leopard gives
you the 256-bit encryption now.
If you're using things like FileVault,
it's on the fly.
You kind of set and forget.
In many cases,
it's a situation where most users,
if they have to deal with
trying to figure out whether
they're going to encrypt,
they're going to do it.
If they have to deal with trying
to figure out whether they're
going to encrypt the data or not,
probably not a good thing because
most likely they're going to forget
because we're all in a hurry.
So when you're thinking of FileVault,
fully encrypts their user account,
set and forget.
If you're using encrypted disk images,
it's also the capability of
carrying that data across the
network that becomes quite helpful.
And I'll share this in a second
because the encrypted disk image
is something that carries across
all storage devices that you use.
This is an environment that, within OS X,
using the same technology on
all of your storage devices.
So whether this is your CDs, DVDs,
thumb drives, USB, FireWire,
whatever it is,
if you can access it as storage,
as media, then you can put these
encrypted containers on here.
Then again,
with the Leopard brings a 256 bit.
Well,
one of the areas that has really been
helpful for folks is the fact that these
containers can then also be partitioned,
right?
Consider that encrypted container,
do the same thing with it that
you would do with a hard drive.
You can partition it,
have various disk formats
in each one of those.
A lot of folks are doing that for
maybe creating a FAT32 disk formatted
partition and use that with Parallels
or VMware for storage of their content,
their additional data, additional apps,
while it's part of that
full encrypted container.
And the area here which really is helpful
to a lot of folks and they haven't
been aware of it is this same encrypted
technology gives you the ability of
storing that data on a file server
and accessing it remotely on your laptop
and accessing that as a block device.
So you now have blocks of either
128 or... or 256 bit encrypted
data traversing that network.
So it now means that remotely I can have
access to massive amounts of data that's
encrypted at rest on the server and I may
have a very low bandwidth connection,
but I have full access to
that data on my mobile device,
right?
So I'm no longer relying on a sole
solution of carrying all my data with
me on my laptop and being concerned
about having that data physically
on the drive and if it gets stolen.
So now during use of that data,
I have access to it across the network.
That's been quite helpful
to a lot of folks.
Things that are near
and dear to my heart,
and many folks in the audience as well,
particularly if you're
in the government space,
is the shifting and using of
two-factor authentication,
predominantly in a smart card space.
This is where no longer do you
deal with the typical weaknesses
of all of us in passwords,
either the weakness of a password
or just human nature that if we
have to keep changing passwords,
it becomes reduced entropy in
the difference of our passwords.
So between that and the ability
of now with all kinds of resources
and super computer capabilities,
even on our own systems,
is the ability to crack passwords
if you're trying to protect
things just with passwords alone.
Moving to a two-factor authentication,
solutions like smart cards,
give you a significant protection,
really with reduced
or limited complexity.
for systems.
I want to take the smart card piece just
a little bit further for some of you,
because this happens to be
particularly in the customers that
I deal with in the enterprise space.
They weren't aware of all
the capabilities that we have
integrated in with smart cards.
Here you'll notice about
biometrics and one-time passwords,
cryptocard and secure ID.
Ty those two together with the smart
cards and the key thing is that
we're trying to give you multiple
forms of strong authentication built
on the platform that you can tie
into whatever directory service
that you have on the back end.
As I just mentioned,
I want to highlight the smart
card piece here real quick.
And that is with the integration
work that we've done,
you can now leverage that single
form of two-factor authentication,
that smart card,
for obviously logging into your system,
for system administration,
the unlocking of screen saver, typical,
sign encrypting of email, VPN,
you've got secure web access,
and even the unlocking of key chain.
With Leopard came the unlocking of
FileVault with those smart cards.
And this doesn't require heavy
infrastructure on the back end.
This could actually enable many of
you with one-to-one deployment with
your own laptop to do that two-factor
authentication with a smart card
directly on your local workstation,
requiring the infrastructure
on the back end.
Now,
going forward with other things here.
As I mentioned,
there's always certain things
that any kind of security
individual would suggest folks do,
and that is securing services.
Anytime you're enabling a service,
you always want to leverage
the more secure version,
and if you're not using that service,
disable it, just kind of like I said
about the interfaces.
We always note within OS X that
we definitely don't want customers
to be using the insecure versions
of things like Telnet and others.
That's why we, by default, use SSH,
right?
That's the way it's configured in OS X.
SSH, secure copy,
secure remove for securely erasing data.
So again,
if you aren't using the service,
disable it.
Some organizations will go as
far as to physically remove
that service off the box.
Because if it's a... If it's still there,
and it's... Even if it's just
installed and not enabled,
if there's a compromise or a
vulnerability in another service,
it does allow for the potential
kind of hopping between services
or capabilities on the box.
And that is,
you leverage a vulnerability in one,
if the service is still available
or the executables are there,
there is a potential for leveraging
that in a form of attack.
So again,
these are all types of ways that you
can better avoid these kinds of risks.
Typical tools,
we always kind of highlight this again,
is what you can use to control that.
Now, we get into firewalls.
By default,
you've got all your services turned
off and there's really nothing
sitting there listening to any
kind of a request for a service.
But once you do enable services on OS X,
the best thing to do is start
enabling and configuring that
firewall for that protection.
You always want to put up yet
another barrier to attack.
Blocking those services and the
little image you're seeing there
is the new application-based
firewall that's built in OS X.
It was our ongoing effort to
simplify the complexities of
firewall for the average user.
I still am amazed at how many
times we're in conversations,
even in very large organizations,
where there are so many
challenges to folks understanding
complexities of firewalls.
And that's just the case, right?
It's so complex.
But yet we're expecting
as IT folks for our users,
our end users, to protect themselves
It's either going to be done by policy,
by you all enforcement,
but Apple takes the extra
effort to simplify the process
for kind of the rest of us.
Now,
keep in mind that when we did on Leopard,
we brought the
application-based firewall,
so you're doing that leveraging
through system preferences.
And on Leopard,
we still have IPFW on the client,
so many of you were looking at kind of
larger-scale deployment and management
of the firewall on Leopard client.
And the approach many of you have taken,
which is the right way to do that,
and that is you're still managing
and pushing out those rule sets and
leveraging the built-in IPFW on the box,
rather than the individual themselves
managing the application-based firewall.
And on the server,
that's management on the server admin,
of course, that's the full granular
control of IPFW on the servers.
Maintaining system updates.
Again, some of these seem so
simple and so natural,
but we always want to be sure that
folks are aware of and fully leverage
the additional updates and advancements
of security updates coming from Apple.
We wouldn't be putting out security
updates if it wasn't something that
we truly felt is in your betterment.
We're trying to address
identified issues that have arisen
either that we've identified,
external entities have identified.
So, as we might say,
heed those security notifications
from us and update those systems
after you're doing some validation
internally in your organization.
The key thing is, the longer you wait
between those updates,
the longer you're going to have to
wait for the security updates to come.
So, when you're doing security updates,
when they're available, again,
is that time that you're potentially
exposing yourselves to vulnerabilities
once a given vulnerability in a service
or an application has been known,
the longer you wait,
the longer you expose that system.
Of course the tools in our case.
Many folks are doing some incredible
scripting in their environments
to do a lot of the management
and we'll talk a little bit
later about the security guides.
Many of you, if you've looked at them,
we've added the additional
command line equivalents for
each tweaking the configuration
on the client and the server.
This should enhance those scripts
that you've already developed and are
pushing out either through third-party
tools or remote desktop for tweaking
and maintenance on those systems.
So, as I kind of hit some
of those highlights,
let me bring Kim on to walk you through
thinking critically about security
and how you should be formulating
security guidance or security by
policy within your organization.
So, Kim?
Hi, I'm Kim Hersh from the
National Security Agency.
And as Shawn said,
I'm going to talk to you a little today
about thinking critically about security.
What I want to do is just
give you a way to kind of
[Transcript missing]
Just get a good grip on thinking
about security and getting into,
really into thinking about it and just a
step-by-step way of locking down systems.
Most people want the step-by-step
way of locking down systems.
They want it to be just kind of
a no-brainer way of doing it.
the...
When we develop the
configuration guidance,
we design it to be kind of step-by-step
guidance to securing a system and
it comes from the best knowledge
we have on the security features
of a system and it's designed using
standard security design principles.
And, but like I said,
most people want it to be a no-brainer,
but does one size really fit all?
Well, not really.
There's too many varied environments,
differing requirements for a single
guidance document to fit all needs.
And trying to write several documents
to capture a majority of needs
would still not satisfy everyone.
So the approach we've taken is simply
to tell how to lock down everything
as securely as possible and to give
some of the ramifications for not
doing so where we possibly can.
And this allows every organization
to use the guide to develop an
individual security plan for locking
down their own systems according
to their own particular needs.
Okay, so using the guide means
knowing how to adapt them.
Adapting them to fit organizational need,
organizational policy,
sensitivity level of the data,
and balancing these needs
and the easy use against the
security risk to the systems.
All right,
so there are general principles
that are followed when developing
security configuration guidance.
These are the same principles that
should be followed when adapting that
guidance for use in specific environment.
Let's look at the security principles.
We have separation of function.
If at all possible,
you should have a separate
firewall between the outside
networks and your internal network.
I know a lot of times in a
mobile environment these days
that's not always possible.
Email and web servers,
those should be separate.
Also, the user database should reside on
its own server whenever possible.
Having all these services
reside separately means that if
someone should compromise one
has a strong authentication requirement,
and he's not necessarily going to
compromise your entire network.
Having good separation between
the services by putting them on
separate servers and having strong
authentication required between the
servers adds another layer of security.
Never surf the web with
your admin account.
This cannot ever be said enough.
Use admin only for
administrative functions.
Encryption provides yet
another layer of security.
No remote login should be done
without some sort of encryption.
Any services, especially network services
that are not absolutely needed,
should be stopped on the system.
This is true also of any
unused code in the system.
One such case,
even though it's not a service, is IPv6.
IPv6 is currently started automatically.
Many organizations have currently not
yet switched over to IPv6 addresses,
and so if you're not using it,
go ahead and turn it off.
Kernel extensions.
They can also provide
an attacker a window,
so if there are any unused or
unneeded extensions in the system,
they should be removed.
Also, they can be a good place to remove
capabilities from the system,
such as the ability to
use USB flash drives.
You must be remembered, however,
that kernel-less extensions may be
restored any time the system is updated.
So, if any extensions are
removed from the system,
they should be removed each time
an update is done to the system.
Choose the most locked-down
configuration you can while
still providing the functionality
that's required by your users.
Always lock down anything
that is not absolutely needed.
And last but not least,
you want to always give least privilege.
This includes for the users,
for file systems, for groups,
anything on the system, group ownership.
You want to give the least privilege
needed for everything to work properly
and for the user to be able to still
do what he needs to do on the system.
Okay, now I'm going to show you how
we go about using those security
principles to develop guidance
by taking a look at the iPhone.
Right now, we have
We are starting to look at
guidance for the iPhone.
Eventually,
we're going to develop a guidance
document with the goal that
probably a federal desktop core
configuration guide will be developed.
Under the Enterprise Environment.
But, of course,
the Enterprise Environment's not out yet.
So meanwhile, using just our standard
security principles,
we can at least somewhat secure
the iPhone just as it comes
right out of the box right now.
So, first, you turn off access whenever
you are not actively using it,
such as when the device is sitting
idle on a desk or in a car.
This reduces the risk that an
attacker will access the device
remotely without your knowledge.
Next, set the iPhone to always
ask to join a network,
rather than joining automatically
by toggling the Ask to
Join Network switch to on.
You should only join your iPhone
to networks you know and trust.
Only enable the Bluetooth communications
when it is explicitly being
used to pair the device with a
Bluetooth headset or hands-free device.
This limits the chance that an
attacker could take advantage
of the Bluetooth connection
to attack your iPhone.
Airplane mode should be enabled
whenever taking the iPhone into a
sensitive area where all wireless
functionality should be disabled.
Obviously a good example
would be on an airplane.
Set the auto lock option to five
minutes or less in order to mitigate
unauthorized access to the device
when it is not in use or in case
the device is left unattended.
Again, setting a passcode for the device
helps to reduce the chance of
unauthorized access to the device.
In order for the passcode
to be truly effective,
the required passcode option
must be set to immediately.
Now remember, if you set this passcode,
make sure you know what the passcode is.
If you don't,
it's going to get locked up.
You're going to get a little message
that you're going to have to contact
your carrier to be able to unlock it.
And suddenly we're going to have a
whole bunch of people in the room
calling AT&T and AT&T is going to
wonder why we suddenly have a room full,
you know, a hundred people or so
calling them from Santa Fe,
New York.
And then you're going to have
to get a message from the AT&T.
And then you're going to
have to get a message from
San Francisco with locked-up phones.
So please know your passcode
if you set this option.
Okay, using VPNs for internet
connections whenever possible
is strongly recommended.
They should always be configured
to use L2TP in conjunction
with IPSec if at all possible.
PPTP alone should be avoided because
there are known security problems.
The RSA SecureID feature
provides token-based,
two-factor authentication between the
user device and the remote VPN server.
This option provides
additional protection and
should be enabled if possible.
If the RSA SecureID feature
cannot be used,
a strong password should be used instead.
Password strength is an
old topic at this point.
Everybody knows you need
to use strong passwords.
There's plenty of guides
out there on the internet,
everywhere else about
what password strength is,
so go find them, do it.
PPTP is not recommended at all,
but if there's no other choice,
it's better than nothing.
If it's used, make sure the encryption
level is set to maximum.
Advertising the type
of device you're using,
an iPhone, just gives attackers a head
start on knowing how to
approach attacking your device.
It also notifies them when the iPhone
is active and available based on when
an email was sent from your iPhone.
If all of your emails
have the same signature,
attackers will not know whether
they came from your iPhone,
your work machine or somewhere else.
So they won't know if your
phone's available to be targeted.
So change it.
When setting up mail service,
it's recommended to set it up to
communicate over SSL if possible.
The default on the phone is
set to communicate over SSL,
so don't override the
option if you can use it.
If you set the show my
caller ID switch to off,
your phone number will not
show up on other caller IDs.
So if that's important to you,
you should set that option.
Toggle the SIM pin option to
on and create an eight-digit
pin to lock down the SIM card.
This will provide an extra layer
of protection by helping to prevent
unauthorized use of the SIM in the iPhone
or in any other GSM cellular phone.
No phone calls can be made or
received when the SIM is locked.
And as I said, remember your pin.
Also, there are a number of known
exploits not just under Safari,
but with all web browsers.
Because of this,
Safari should be tightened
down as much as possible.
Unfortunately,
there's a limited amount you can do
to lock down Safari on the iPhone.
But you should use what little
bit is available to lock it
down as much as possible.
So disable JavaScript and plug-ins,
enable pop-up blocking.
Toggle the Accept Cookie option
to From Visited.
The Accept Cookies option
should never be set to Always.
And every time
Safari settings are changed,
the phone should be rebooted or restarted
to make sure the settings are accepted.
Also, cookies,
history and cache should be cleared
each time Safari is used and every
time a secure connection is made.
The phone should be also here too,
the phone should be restarted
after these are cleared to make
sure the settings were applied.
Okay, now that we've gone over
what the settings should be,
we're gonna go over a few
best practices for using,
carrying around, you know,
having your iPhone.
Once a phone is left unattended,
if you still have it after that,
it will be suspect.
It may have been compromised.
So you don't know if your data
has been seen by somebody else,
you don't know if
something's been put on it,
you just don't know what has happened
to that phone while it was left alone.
Always use the provided applications
to download and play media,
not third-party applications.
Third-party applications are
from unknown sources and they
may introduce additional risks.
Clearing the history in
Google Maps clears all
addresses in the history,
except for the last one entered.
So,
if you care about people knowing about
any of your addresses on the phone,
that last address won't be cleared
until a new address is entered,
so you might just want to put in some new
arbitrary address to clear that address.
Don't hack the iPhone,
including jailbreaking,
fake activating and unlocking the phone.
All the sources to do
this are unverified,
untrusted sources and they could
introduce malicious code onto
your phone and could compromise
any personal data on your phone
and could even render it useless.
And installing software from
sources other than those provided
through the official sources have
the same risks as the packages
provided for hacking the phone.
Best Practices for Browsing with
Safari Browsing the internet is where
some of the greatest security risks lie.
Some of the best ways to mitigate
security risks are in how you use the
device when you're on the internet.
Make sure that whenever a web page
requires a login that it uses SSL.
or that it says HTTPS instead of HTTP.
If it doesn't, don't log in.
Also make sure that SSL is being used
whenever sensitive personal information,
such as credit card numbers,
are being exchanged.
There's going to be a small gray lock
at the end of the address to indicate
that the connection is encrypted.
Don't just click continue if the site
certificate is not properly validated.
When a message comes up that
indicates the certificate is invalid,
there's a reason for that.
Make sure that any site with
which you are exchanging sensitive
information has a valid cert.
Make sure you log off and navigate
to a blank page when you are
exiting a secure link in Safari.
Don't just quit Safari without
logging off first.
And always log off and quit
Safari between secure sessions.
Okay, storing your sensitive information.
Currently there is no way to
encrypt stored data on the iPhone.
And though the iPhone is a very handy
way to keep a whole lot of information
in one place to carry with you,
remember things,
it's also a very handy way to give out
a whole lot of personal information in
one package if you lose it or it gets
stolen or it's compromised when it's not.
So sensitive personal information or
company information should never be
stored on the iPhone or should at the
very least be kept to a bare minimum.
This includes information
stored in the notes application.
And it includes things like
usernames and passwords,
account numbers,
personal data and proprietary
information among others.
Don't go putting your credit cards
on there and storing them because you
want to keep them in a safe place.
and then you don't have to carry
your credit cards because...
There's no way to encrypt them.
It's a very dangerous thing to do,
let's just put it that way.
And so it's taking pictures of them
and keeping pictures of them on there.
I've heard that that's
something people do too.
Any of your sensitive data
is wide open on there.
Clear out all personal data
after browsing the internet.
To make sure this takes effect,
as I said before,
the phone must be restarted
after clearing these settings.
As stated previously,
this should be done not
only after browsing overall,
but it should be done after
each secure session before
beginning another web session.
When connecting to a Wi-Fi access point,
you should always choose the strongest
wireless security available to you.
WPA2 provides the strongest
security available on the iPhone.
You should always choose
this if it's available,
use the Enterprise Edition when
it's possible,
and choose EAPTLS or
TTLS for authentication.
When WPA2 is not available,
WPA should be used as the
next best available choice.
The enterprise option should be used over
the personal or pre-shared key option.
The enterprise option
requires more infrastructure,
but it's more secure.
If PSK must be used, again,
choose a strong password.
Use only, oh, WEP, avoid using it.
Only use it if WPA2 and
WPA are both unavailable.
Choose a strong password
if you have to use it,
and avoid performing any
sensitive transactions.
Do not connect to unknown
wireless networks.
A good example of this
is free public Wi-Fi.
It's a rogue ad hoc wireless
network that maliciously propagates
itself across connecting hosts.
Many commercial and private networks do
not implement proper wireless security,
leaving them open for connection.
Even though they are open for connection,
connecting to them without permission
and proper authorization is unlawful,
and it also leaves you open to attack.
Disconnecting from your
wireless access point when your
connectivity is no longer needed.
helps mitigate the risk of unauthorized
remote access or exploitation.
It also has the added benefit of
helping save your battery life.
Okay, so summing up.
When securing or even
just using a system,
Such as your iPhone, your laptop,
anything, always applying basic security
principles can help keep your
system a lot more secure.
So, even though we've got these guides
out and you should use them,
a lot of this is just thinking
about security by using
basic security principles.
Take these principles, think about them,
use them,
always apply them to your system,
always apply them to the
way you use your system.
Using guidance will help,
but even without this guidance,
if you apply the principles,
go through the system,
you'll be able to lock down a lot
of things in the system on your own.
And remember,
the user has a greater responsibility
than ever to secure the machine.
Securing a machine or device
frequently means disabling features
that people insist they must have.
So sometimes the security
is in the hands of the user.
When locking down a system,
we always end up having to
strike a balance between
functionality and security.
And Shawn, I'll hand it back to you.
So right about now,
probably at least half of you in this
room are scratching your heads saying,
"Can I actually use my system
after I do all this?" Keep in
mind that a lot of this is,
again, kind of across the board guidance.
We keep mentioning about making
it apply to your environment,
to where you're using your system.
So if you took your system and
applied every aspect of this,
it may indeed be unusable
for the functions,
for the services that you need.
So again, these are just that,
guidance about how to further fortify
various services or general systems.
Keep that in mind as you go forward.
So, as I mentioned, And...
We always want to be sure that you
have ongoing understanding of where to
get this guidance on a regular basis.
Share with you a little bit of the
guidance that we've done in the past.
Hopefully many of you are aware of the
fact that we started a collaborative
effort with NSA on security guidance for
client and server back in the 10-3 days.
That's where it was predominantly
generated within NSA.
We were part of the
vetting process of that.
We moved forward with this collaboration,
provided guidance documents directly
from Apple that were collaboration
between us again and NSA for 10-4.
Then when we came and just
recently released for 10-5,
those documents were many folks from NSA,
from DISA, NIST and from Apple were kind
of the core group of this.
There were several
folks within government.
There were a couple of folks in
commercial who were additional
vetters of the document that came out.
Keep in mind that the release that
we just put out recently is kind
of the first release for Leopard.
We're going to be taking some
additional public review part of the
NIST process and the DISA is some
additional external public review.
We'll be bringing that input back in,
working both that input
and some of our additional
refinement of this first release.
So we'll be bringing that in for
the second release for Leopard.
And then there'll be a subsequent
release or an update to this guide,
again for Leopard itself.
And Kim had mentioned that work is
already underway for the phone itself.
So if you are in an environment
where you need some very specific
guidance on these devices,
whether it be desktop,
server or the phone,
the best place to go for this is
references on the on snack site at NSA.
But at Apple, we have a.
Website where a lot of
these resources are as well.
And the second down there is a
security configuration guides.
That's a new site.
Many of you probably
aren't aware of that,
but at Apple dot com slash support
slash security slash guides is
kind of a new website for the
aggregation of all of these guides.
So that's kind of your landing
spot for looking for these
guidance documents going forward.
There's a lot of resources,
whether you're in the I.T.
Space, whether you're the developer,
whether you're just kind
of looking at information.
Related.
To security updates and
OS ten and of course,
subsequent updates for phone the iPhone
and all these are very good resources for
you going forward relative to guidance.
So now I think at the end,
bring Kim back on.
And those of you that have some
additional questions that we can
help you through at this point,
we'd be more than happy to answer
questions related to general guidance,
security guidance in your
environment or specific questions
if we can help you navigate.
now on particular issues you may have.